# Abstract
Large Language Models showed significant potential in the Code Generation. However, Consistancy of the code is not reliable enough in General Code Generation. On top of that, Performance related code optimization is very important while Generating code. our Objective is to analyze our PerfCurator Performance related codes to setup LLM benchmarking for various individual tasks. An Ideal Model should be generating the performance level code on its own with the descriptions. those descriptions can be preserved to high level performance code on its own. any lack of in-consistancy while generating code or generating descriptions will create a in-consistancy. so we plan to evaluate LLMs self consistancy when they do tasks Programming language to Natural language and Natural language to programming language with focus of performance related code data. Our Focus is to Explain the self consistancy of the LLMs on performance level data in the PL to NL and NL to PL. then we designed a framework to create this self consistancy with our PerfCurator performance data to evaluate the LLMs. Our study is to consider the top Code Generation models to Evaluate the performance level Individual LLM Tasks with our LLM benchmarking. 

## Introduction

For Evaluating Code LLMs people using Existing benchmaking CodeXBleu, HumanEval and so on. But for Evaluating Performance level Generation of the code using LLM is yet to be Explored. It requires high quality performance data to set it up robust Evaluation design. Also Conventional LLM individual tasks with LLMs is Primarily focus on the 

1. Code Generation: we Generate Code Generation from the clear description. it is a NL to PL task.
2. Code Summarization: we generate Summary for the code. it is PL to NL task.

As from Paper "BEYOND ACCURACY: EVALUATING SELF-CONSISTENCY OF CODE LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS WITH IDENTITYCHAIN" they have mentioned evaluating these two tasks in isolation overlooks their symmetric nature. NL-to-PL and PL-to-NL Generation can be thought of as semantic-preserving translation and back-translation between the PL space and the NL space. Therefore, a trustworthy model should be able to correctly perform PL-to-NL Generation given programs generated by itself from previous NL-to-PL tasks. Similarly, it should correctly perform NL-to-PL Generation given natural language specifications generated by itself from previous PL-to-NL tasks.they call such a property “self-consistency”.

Here, Our Primary objective is to show the self consistancy of the LLMs using our Performance data. Our performance data is mined from Git Repository. these data is crafted by various authors in the Git repositories. Our data will have Code before, Code After, Commit message, Category of the performance issue and patch informations. we collected a lot of high level performance code and categorized them into APIMisuse, MemoryInefficiency, PoorConcurrencyControl, InefficientI/O, 
 NetworkBottlenecks, InefficientAlgorithm/Data-structure, Parallelization, Micro-architectural. so we want to evaluate the LLMs on these categories. 
 
 Our design for the Experimentation is we want to check the LLM how it preserves to Generate the Source code from it's own description. we start with code summarization (PL to NL) using a top 4 7B LLMs in the Hugggingface Code LLMs leaderboard. we have used CodeInterpreter 7B, Artigenz Coder 7B, CodeQwen 7B, NXCoder 7B. we provide code before,code after and commit message as a input. we crafted a prompt to focus on the Performance in-efficiency in the code and how they fixed it. from this we were able to generate quality description which talks about the performance issue and how it is optimized using these top LLMs. for Next step our Code Generation task ( NL to PL) we provide code before + descritoption to optimize the issue in the code before. finally, we augument the code before and after with the help of LLM to executable code then we execute them in a Python environment to check the performance. For Augumenting the inputs as a executable code,  we use GPT-4o. we select all the Augumented code Manually to filter High quality data points. which will be used for Executable Experiment.

so, Executable Experiment, we run the code for N iterations 5 times to make sure our code before run for more than 5s. Normally, our NL to PL stage, LLMs struggle to generate the Optimized code as some lack of information in the description causes LLM to be not consistent in those cases. we wanted to experiment these for our performance related Examples which is crafted by humans. 
## PL to NL prompt:
'''
You are provided with a GitHub commit in this format:
Commit Message: """the commit message written by the author"""
Original Code: """the code before the code modificaton"""
Modified Code: """the code after the code modification"""
Code Diff : """the diff between the original and the modified code"""

The commit is implementing a code optimization to improve software performance or resource utilization.
"
Your task is to meticulously examine the commit message, the original code, the modified code, and the differences between the original and modified code (code diff) to understand the improvements in terms of  performance or resource usage. Focus primarily on the changes made to the code as well as the commit message to grasp how they improve performance or resource usage. Your goal is to understand:"

1) The root cause of inefficiency in the original code that necessitated these optimizations.
2) The optimization implemented in the revised code, including a deeper understanding on how the modification addresses the identified inefficiencies.

Your output should be structured to clearly present:
Root Cause of Inefficiency: Explain the specific performance or resource inefficiency issues found in the original code and their root causes.
Optimization Strategy: Based on the provided commit and modified code, elaborate the strategies to overcome the root cause of the inefficiencies, detailing the rationale and significance of each optimization. Explain the optimization such a way that one can implement the code modification by following the strategy. Use the "related notes" section to better explain the commit if required.

- Commit Message: 
{commit_message}

- Original Code:
```{Original_Code}```

- Modified Code:
```{Modified_Code}```

Code Diff:
```{Code_Diff}```

Model Response: '''
## NL to PL Prompt: 

'''
You are provided with an explanation of a code optimization and the original code. Your task is to generate the optimized code based on the explanation. Here are the details:

Explanation: 
{explanation}

Original Code:
```{original_code}```

Your task is to generate the optimized code that implements the given explanation. The optimized code should reflect the improvements described in the explanation.

Optimized Code: '''

# Example Demonstrations: 

## Example-1:
Link: ```https://github.com/pygae/clifford/commit/36b59633b30acc3cfd0f7b1b9e5f541c720e2f3f```

This Example is categorized as a `Inefficient_Algorithm/Data-structure/Expensive_Operation`

**Performance Bug Explanation**:
### Bug in the Old Code
- **Inefficient Type Checking**:
  - The old code first checked if `other` was a numeric scalar (`numbers.Number`).
  - This incurred an expensive `isinstance` check, even though `MultiVector` operations were more frequent.

### Rectification in the New Code
- **Reordered Type Checks**:
  - The new code checks if `other` is a `MultiVector` first.
  - This prioritizes the more common case, reducing unnecessary overhead.

### PL to NL Results:
**Code Interpreter_7B**: It seems like there may be a misunderstanding. The provided information appears to be text from a GitHub commit. However, the prompt indicates that the task is to analyze the commit message, original code, modified code, and the differences between the original and modified code (code diff) to understand the improvements. 
To proceed, could you please provide the GitHub commit details in a different format or explicitly state the questions you want answers to?

**Arti-Genz-Coder-7B**: Based on the commit message and diff, following is the understanding and the optimization strategy:

Root Cause of Inefficiency: 
In the original code, `isinstance(other, numbers.Number)` check was done for both operations, while these checks were incorrectly done on every operation rather than just on `MultiVector <op> something_else` operation making comparison costly for a `MultiVector` with a `number`, causing a performance degradation.

Optimization Strategy: 
The change incorporated is a conditional check `isinstance(other, MultiVector)` before the inefficient `isinstance(other, numbers.Number)` check which would save the majority of the operations, hence making it more efficient. The main reason behind this was the primary operation scenario of `MultiVector <op> something_else`, hence, it's more efficient to check for this specific case first while previously, for other cases, we were executing the inefficient check.

The modified code now checks if the other argument is a `MultiVector` first before it tries to check if it's a number. This not only eliminates the unnecessary `isinstance(other, numbers.Number)` check but also increases the efficiency for the specific primary scenario. Hence, it will not only decrease the execution time but also will save resources.

The "Note" about the commit would be that the function has already been enhanced to check for a `MultiVector` first rather than using a `boolean` flag variable to check once. Therefore, the commit does not need any further notes.

**codeQwen-1.5_7B** 

Root Cause of Inefficiency:
The main root cause of the inefficiency in the original code lies in the line where it checks if `other` is an instance of `numbers.Number`. This check is unnecessary for the case that `other` is a `MultiVector`, as only instances of `MultiVector` should be considered for arithmetic operations. Therefore, the code is unnecessarily performing a redundant check, potentially leading to slower performance and unnecessary memory usage.

Optimization Strategy:
To optimize this code by addressing the identified inefficiency, we can modify the code to first check if `other` is a `MultiVector`. If it is, we will simply return it without performing any further checks or modifications. This optimization will bypass the unnecessary check of whether `other` is a `numbers.Number` and significantly improve the efficiency of the code. 
By implementing this optimization, we eliminate the redundant check of `other` being a `numbers.Number`, resulting in improved performance and reduced memory usage.

**NXCode_7B** 
Root Cause of Inefficiency:
The root cause of the inefficiency in the original code resides in the `_checkOther` function, specifically in the condition check for `isinstance(other, numbers.Number)`. This check unnecessarily introduces a runtime overhead by performing `isinstance` checks on other data types that are irrelevant to the actual operation. When `other` is a `MultiVector`, there is no need for a check since the operation only needs to be performed if `other` is a `MultiVector` and has the same `Layout` as the current `MultiVector`. Therefore, checking if `other` is a `MultiVector` first and directly performing the operation if it is the case ensures improved performance.

Optimization Strategy:
1. Move the check for `isinstance(other, numbers.Number)` to be the first condition in the `if` block. This means that if `other` is a `MultiVector`, it would be handled first before entering the `else` block that handles `numbers.Number`.

2. The optimization ensures improved performance by avoiding unnecessary type checks when `other` is a `MultiVector`. The check for `numbers.Number` can also be eliminated since the condition in the `else` block handles `numbers.Number` case, making it unnecessary.

This approach directly addresses the root cause of the inefficiency in the original code by minimizing type checks and improving efficiency. The commit message acknowledges the identified issue and provides a rationale for the optimization strategy. The modified code follows the improvements in terms of performance and resource utilization.

### NL to PL Results( Execution Experiment):

| LLMs           |   Performance Improvement (%) |
|:---------------|------------------------------:|
| CodeGwen       |                      12.28    |
| Artigenz_Coder |                       9.12    |
| NXCode         |                      12.10    |

**CodeGwen**: Achieved a performance improvement of 12.28% over the initial execution time. When compared to human-optimized code, it showed a minor additional improvement of 0.20%.

**Artigenz Coder**: Improved by 9.12% over the initial execution time. However, it was slightly less effective than human optimization, showing a decrease of -3.39%.

**NXCode**: Improved performance by 12.10% over the initial execution time, equaling the human-optimized code with no additional improvement.

**CodeInterpreter** : we were able to see the hallucination problem as it provided some text from the prompt not the explanation.

## Example -2 
**Link**: ```https://github.com/urule99/jsunpack-n/commit/c55e0255170c3fa5132a31cad00b2be4eb0f5e7f```

**Performance_Bug_Explanation**: The original implementation of `applyFilter` used regular expressions to remove non-ASCII characters from the beginning and end of a string, which is slow for large inputs. The new implementation replaces regex with character processing, iterating through the string to remove non-ASCII characters and reversing it for efficient processing of trailing characters. This change improves performance by avoiding the overhead of regex operations, especially for long strings, resulting in faster and more efficient character filtering.

This Example is categorized as a `Inefficient_Algorithm/Data-structure/Expensive_Operation`

**Performance_Bug_explanation**: The original implementation of calculating the graph Laplacian involved creating a dense diagonal scaling matrix (`Dsqrt`), which is computationally expensive both in terms of memory and processing. By replacing this with a vector of reciprocal terms and leveraging NumPy broadcasting operations, the performance is significantly improved. The new implementation avoids the overhead of creating a dense matrix and instead directly applies the scaling using vectorized operations, which are more efficient. This reduces both memory usage and computation time, resulting in a more performant calculation of the graph Laplacian.

### PL to NL Results:

**Code Interpreter_7B**: Root Cause of Inefficiency:
The original code has two regular expression searches, one for starting non-ASCII characters and another for trailing non-ASCII characters. Both of these searches can be inefficient as they involve iterating over the input characters and performing various operations. The time complexity of these operations can be significant, particularly for large inputs. 

The inefficiency in the code arises due to the two separate searches and the subsequent removal or processing of characters based on these searches, which results in unnecessary overhead.

Optimization Strategy:
To improve the software's performance and resource utilization, the code can be optimized by reducing the number of regular expression searches and unnecessary operations. In the modified code, a check has been added to limit the processing based on file size. If the input length exceeds 10 million characters, the function returns the original input without further processing. 

By incorporating this check, unnecessary character processing is bypassed, reducing the time complexity significantly. Additionally, the removal of unnecessary regular expressions eliminates the overhead of pattern matching and character processing.

To implement this code modification, follow the strategy as follows:
1. Modify the applyFilter function in the pdf class to include the check for input length.
2. If the input length is greater than 10 million characters, return the input without processing it further.
3. Otherwise, continue with the processing as done in the original code.

Please note that the code modifications should be made in the relevant files and functions.

Root Cause of Inefficiency: 
In the original code, `isinstance(other, numbers.Number)` check was done for both operations, while these checks were incorrectly done on every operation rather than just on `MultiVector <op> something_else` operation making comparison costly for a `MultiVector` with a `number`, causing a performance degradation.

Optimization Strategy: 
The change incorporated is a conditional check `isinstance(other, MultiVector)` before the inefficient `isinstance(other, numbers.Number)` check which would save the majority of the operations, hence making it more efficient. The main reason behind this was the primary operation scenario of `MultiVector <op> something_else`, hence, it's more efficient to check for this specific case first while previously, for other cases, we were executing the inefficient check.

The modified code now checks if the other argument is a `MultiVector` first before it tries to check if it's a number. This not only eliminates the unnecessary `isinstance(other, numbers.Number)` check but also increases the efficiency for the specific primary scenario. Hence, it will not only decrease the execution time but also will save resources.

The "Note" about the commit would be that the function has already been enhanced to check for a `MultiVector` first rather than using a `boolean` flag variable to check once. Therefore, the commit does not need any further notes.

**codeQwen-1.5_7B** 


Root Cause of Inefficiency:
- The previous code relied on regular expressions to identify and remove leading and trailing non-ASCII characters, which can be time-consuming for large input files.
- Additionally, there was an erroneous subtraction operation that was erroneously applied to the output when cutting trailing non-ASCII characters.

Optimization Strategy:
- To optimize the performance and resource usage of the code, the logic has been re-written to process the characters directly instead of using regular expressions.
- First, the function checks if the input file size exceeds a certain threshold (10 million characters for this example). If it does, it returns the original input without any modification, as processing large files could be resource-intensive.
- Then, the function iterates through the beginning and end of the input string using character comparisons. If a non-ASCII character is found, the respective part of the string is trimmed.
- After trimming the input, it is reversed to achieve the same functionality as the original code but in a more direct manner.
- The function then returns the modified input.

Implementation Strategy:
- The optimization strategies implemented in the code differ significantly from the original ones, including changing the regular expression to manual character comparisons, directly trimming the input before processing, and reversing the string post-processing. The added logic checks if the input size is larger than 10 million characters, which is an arbitrary threshold and can be adjusted based on specific requirements.
- Following the strategy, the function first checks the input file size and returns the original input if it exceeds the threshold. Then, it iteratively trims non-ASCII characters from the beginning and end of the input using character comparisons. After trimming, the function reverses the input to achieve the desired outcome.
- By implementing this code modification, the original code can perform significantly better for large input files, especially those with many non-ASCII characters.

**NXCode_7B** 

Root Cause of Inefficiency:
The original code uses regular expressions to remove leading and trailing non-ascii characters from the input string. This approach, however, can be inefficient for large strings as it involves searching and replacing characters in the string using regex. 

Optimization Strategy:
- The original implementation can be replaced with a character processing approach that directly examines each character and performs the desired modifications, like cutting non-ascii characters from both ends of the string. This is efficient as the modifications are done character by character without requiring the use of regular expressions.

Related Notes:
The modification has been made to apply a maximum length of 10 million characters to the input string. This optimization is particularly useful for handling large volumes of data and avoiding potential performance issues associated with using a regular expression for such operations.

```python
class pdf:
    @staticmethod
    def applyFilter(input):
        if len(input) > 10000000:
            return input

        input = pdf.trimNonAsciiStart(input)
        input = pdf.trimNonAsciiEnd(input)
        return input

    @staticmethod
    def trimNonAsciiStart(input):
        for i in range(len(input)):
            c = ord(input[i])
            if 0 < c < 0x19 or 0x7f < c < 0xff or input[i] in ' \n\r':
                pass
            else:
                input = input[i:]
                break
        return input

    @staticmethod
    def trimNonAsciiEnd(input):
        input = input[::-1]
        for i in range(len(input)):
            c = ord(input[i])
            if 0 < c < 0x19 or 0x7f < c < 0xff or input[i] in ' \n\r':
                pass
            else:
                input = input[i:]
                break
        return input[::-1]

    def main(files):
        # other logic
```

This code optimizes the original implementation by reducing the string processing complexity to directly examine characters in a more efficient manner. The optimization is particularly beneficial for processing large volumes of data and improved performance compared to using regular expressions for non-ascii character trimming.

**Arti-Genz-Coder_7B**:Root Cause of Inefficiency:
The root cause of inefficiency in the original code typically relates to regular expression operations. Regular expressions are generally slow and resource-consuming for larger datasets, especially when they have a lot of different patterns to find and replace. Additionally, it would significantly slow down the program as it has to search the entire string to look for non-ASCII characters from the beginning and end. We have detected these issues with the regex patterns in the original code using the 're' module.

Optimization Strategy:
The optimization implemented removes the use of regex operations which greatly improves the performance. Using a for loop to scan through each character's ASCII value and comparing it directly can vastly increase the speed and efficiency of our processing.

We have created an optimized filter function that only processes the ASCII characters from the beginning and end.
Furthermore, we also added validation checks to skip the processing if the length of the input string is greater than the threshold determined by the optimization (10,000,000 characters). This can further improve the process and avoid unnecessary computations.

In conclusion, the proposed modification improves the program's performance by eliminating unnecessary regular expression processing, making it more efficient and faster. This approach also adds additional security checks and reduces the size of the processed data, improving overall resource utilization.

Commit Message: Implement a code optimization to improve software performance by 10x the regular expression operations.

### NL to PL Results( Execution Experiment): 

None of the LLMs NL to PL results were executable in our augmented code! This is area we want to explore more to overcome! Also, NXCode_7B added the code itself in the description which is an undesired outcome!

## Example-3

Link: https://github.com/kugelrund/mesh_segmentation/commit/d97ba5446e96ef6cab24bd41f9dbf655f4a26a1f

This Example is categorized as a `Inefficient_Algorithm/Data-structure/Expensive_Operation`

### PL to NL Results:

**Code Interpreter_7B**:The root cause of performance or resource inefficiency initially observed in the original code comes from the inefficient calculation of the graph laplacian, in two main aspects: the scaling of rows and columns of the affinity matrix, and the calculation of the degree matrix. In the original code, these steps are computed separately and later combined in a dot product, which results in unnecessary multiplication if the degree of a vertex (sum of rows/columns) is 1. This results in redundant computations and also increases the complexity of the code. 

In the optimized code, the root cause was addressed by calculating the degree matrix by taking the square root of the reciprocal of the sum of rows of the affinity matrix. This takes the square root of the reciprocal of the sum and hence provides the desired degree matrix. Then the graph Laplacian is calculated by multiplying transposed affinity matrix and degree matrix. 

Thus, by taking the square root of the reciprocal, the code minimizes the necessary and redundant computations, thereby enhancing performance and minimizing resource usage. 

In addition to the performance improvements, there were no changes in the structure of the algorithm or the computations being performed. However, the choice of using dot and transpose operations was replaced by simple multiplication, making the code more efficient and easier to understand. This optimization improved readability and maintainability of the code. 

It should be noted here that while performance improvement were achieved in terms of time and space complexity, real world effects are dependent on the specific algorithms and data used. It must be ensured that the optimizations are evaluated on the target system in real conditions to ensure the performance benefits actually result in improved utility or reduced costs. This is particularly critical when considering large-scale systems or performance-critical applications.

**codeQwen-1.5_7B** 

Root Cause of Inefficiency: The root cause of inefficiency in the original code lies in the computation of the graph laplacian. The original implementation first computes the degree matrix and then applies it to the affinity matrix to obtain the graph laplacian. This leads to high computational costs for large matrices.

Optimization Strategy: 
1. Improved Efficiency: To improve performance, the modified code calculates the degree matrix and the graph laplacian in a more efficient manner. It first computes the square root of the reciprocal of the sum of entries in each row of the affinity matrix, and then multiplies the original affinity matrix by the degree matrices and then transpose-multiplies them to obtain the graph laplacian. This significantly reduces the computational complexity of the computation. 
2. Simplified Code: The code diff clearly shows the simplification of the code by using numpy broadcasting operations. This reduces the number of lines of code and makes the code easier to read and understand.

Use the "related notes" section to explain the commit: 
The initial implementation of the code was inefficient due to its reliance on the creation of a dense diagonal scaling matrix, followed by dot products between this matrix and the affinity matrix. The modified code takes advantage of numpy's efficient broadcasting operations, resulting in a more streamlined, readable, and efficient implementation.

Additionally, the root cause of the efficiency issue lies in the use of the dot product to scale the degree matrix and the affinity matrix before computing the graph laplacian. By replacing the dot product with multiplication and transposition operations, the code reduces the computational complexity significantly.

**NXCode_7B** 

Root Cause of Inefficiency:
The inefficiencies found in the original code were related to the calculation of the graph Laplacian. In the original implementation, the degree matrix was created using a list comprehension of square roots, which resulted in an O(n^2) operation. Additionally, the graph laplacian was calculated using matrix operations, which further led to an O(n^3) complexity. Moreover, the k-means clustering algorithm was not utilized optimally to perform k-clustering. The algorithm uses an expensive operation for calculating the distances from the cluster centroids, leading to an overall time complexity of O(n^3).

Optimization Strategy:
1. Reducing Complexity in Calculating Graph Laplacian:
   The inefficiencies of creating a diagonal scaling matrix and then computing the graph Laplacian can be mitigated by employing the numpy function `sqrt` and `reciprocal` for better performance. The transformation from the original code snippet `Dsqrt = numpy.diag([math.sqrt(1/entry) for entry in W.sum(1)])` becomes `Dsqrt = numpy.sqrt(numpy.reciprocal(W.sum(1)))`. This eliminates the need for a list comprehension and improves the overall time complexity from O(n^2) to O(n).
2. Improving Matrix Operations:
   To optimize the computation of the graph laplacian using matrix operations, the original code performs a series of dot product operations. Instead, we can use numpy broadcasting and matrix element-wise multiplication to compute the graph Laplacian in a single step, which simplifies the code and potentially improves computational efficiency. This reduces the time complexity from O(n^3) to O(n^2), as shown in the modified code.
3. Utilizing More Efficient Clustering Algorithm:
   The time complexity of the current k-means clustering algorithm is high because it repeatedly computes distances between cluster centroids for each sample. Efficient clustering algorithms like Mini-Batch K-Means or DBSCAN, which are designed to handle large datasets effectively, could be considered for better performance. We recommend assessing and potentially adapting the clustering algorithm to improve performance.

The modified code, which incorporates the optimization strategies, simplifies the graph laplacian computation and improves the efficiency of the k-means clustering algorithm, will result in a performance enhancement. It's important to note that depending on the specific requirements and constraints of the system, other optimizations may be beneficial as well.

**Arti-Genz-Coder_7B**:

Root Cause of Inefficiency:

The original code creates a dense diagonal scaling matrix instead of a dense matrix to scale the rows and columns of the W affinity matrix for the graph laplacian. This dense diagonal scaling matrix is used as Dsqrt to get the graph laplacian, leading to a high computational cost in terms of the computational complexity.

Optimization Strategy:

To optimize this code, we will perform the following steps: 

1. Use a sparse matrix instead of a dense diagonal scaling matrix to solve for the graph laplacian. The reason for doing this is that the W affinity matrix is mostly filled with zeros, which results in lots of unnecessary memory usage. By using a sparse matrix, we can only store the non-zero entries in the matrix to save memory, which is efficient, especially for large-scale sparse matrices.

2. Do not make a dense diagonal of the affinity matrix Dsqrt. Instead, we will make Dsqrt a 1D array. This saves memory too as we no longer need the 2D matrix. 

Here is the detailed explanation of the change:

Original Code:
```python
Dsqrt = numpy.diag([math.sqrt(1/entry) for entry in W.sum(1)])
```

Modified Code:
```python
Dsqrt = numpy.sqrt(numpy.reciprocal(W.sum(1)))
```

This will result in the reduction of the computational cost for the graph laplacian computation from O(n^3) to O(n^2) because numpy operations use BLAS/LAPACK under-the-hood (for large arrays) which have much efficient implementations for matrix computations.

## NL to PL Results( Execution Experiment): 
### LLM Performance Comparison

| LLM              | Performance Improvement (%) |
|------------------|-----------------------------|
| Code_Interpreter | -34.03                      |

Code before execution time: 12.99 seconds
Code after execution time: 7.58 seconds
The performance improvement percentage for the LLM is approximately 41.65%. but Code interpreter is -34.03%. 

Example-4:

Link:https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml/commit/32a778d2eb4933bc42c20b33dc8a0263cd5587e3

Performance_bug_Explanation: The original implementation of `numpy_gemm` directly used a single NumPy operation to compute the matrix multiplication and addition, relying on the compiler's optimization capabilities. The improved implementation avoids potential optimization overhead by breaking down the computation into separate steps. It asserts that `alpha` and `beta` are both 1, simplifying the computation. The matrix multiplication is performed first, followed by the addition of `c_prime` only if it contains non-zero elements. This reduces unnecessary operations and enhances performance, especially in scenarios where `c_prime` is zero.

### PL to NL Results:

**Code Interpreter_7B**: Based on the provided GitHub commit, we can see that the modification involved the optimization of the code in the `numpy_gemm` function. The commit message is `chore: improve performances of numpy_gemm closes #154`, which indicates that a quality improvement was made for the `numpy_gemm` function to enhance the software's performance.

Root Cause of Inefficiency:
In the original code, the `numpy_gemm` function calculates the matrix multiplication of two input arrays `a` and `b`, and then multiplies the result with the scalar `alpha`, and adds the resultant array to `c`, multiplied with the scalar `beta`. However, this approach does not require any optimization from the compiler and thus may not be the most efficient implementation.

Optimization Strategy:
The optimization implemented in the revised code eliminates the multiplication of `alpha` with the resulting matrix multiplication of `a` and `b` in order to simplify the operation. Instead, it multiplies `a` and `b` directly to get `y`, and then adds a conditional check and multiplication with `c`, if necessary.

This optimization is significant because it simplifies the mathematical operation and may increase the performance of the code overall. By avoiding multiplication with `alpha` and `beta`, it reduces unnecessary computations and computational resources. Additionally, the check for whether `c` is not equal to zero is performed in the optimized code, making the code more efficient.

To implement the code modification in the future, one can update the `alpha` and `beta` values to `1` for matrix multiplication as shown in the optimized code. If there are specific optimization strategies to be considered, such as parallelization or specific matrix library optimizations, more modification might be required.

Please note that the implementation assumes that the variables and functions used in the code are defined correctly and available during runtime.


**codeQwen-1.5_7B** 

The root cause of inefficiency in the original code is that the computation of the resultant tensor `y` is performed using the numpy `matmul` function, which is a general purpose matrix multiplication function in numpy. This might lead to additional computational overheads than necessary for some specific use cases.

Optimization Strategy: To optimize the code and reduce the overhead, a more efficient method could be used to calculate the product of `a_prime` and `b_prime` as well as the summation of the product and `c_prime`, without using the `matmul` function, which might be inefficient for small to medium-sized matrices. One possible way could be to directly calculate `y` as `y = alpha * a_prime.dot(b_prime) + beta * c_prime` without explicitly creating the matrix product and then adding the optional value.

Additional notes: The code change ensures that only explicit calculations are performed, reducing the number of operations performed. This would result in a more efficient code, especially for smaller matrices.

**NXCode_7B** 

Root Cause of Inefficiency:
The code modification improves the performance by avoiding the multiplication of tensors `a_prime` and `b_prime` using `numpy.matmul`, a common operation in mathematical computations. Instead, it uses the basic matrix multiplication `@` operation which is optimized for efficient execution. This optimization minimizes the memory usage and computational complexity by utilizing vectorized operations.

Optimization Strategy:
The specific optimization strategy implemented is the elimination of the unnecessary multiplication operation when `alpha`, `beta`, and `c_prime` are constant. This strategy takes advantage of numpy's vectorized operations and enhances the performance of the code by reducing the number of computational steps and memory usage. The code snippet is modified to directly calculate the result `y` without redundant multiplication operations.

Related Notes:
The optimization is only applied when `alpha` and `beta` are equal to 1, and there is no modification in the value of `c_prime`. This is because the initial code was checking for an empty array instead of a zero value for `c_prime`, which may not capture all the possible cases where the optimization can be applied. Future modifications or improvements to the code base might require careful consideration and testing to optimize more cases.

**Arti-Genz-Coder_7B**:

Root Cause of Inefficiency: 
Performing simple matrix multiplication can be slower and resource-intensive due to unnecessary transposition operations. These operations are not needed if the matrix dimensions are suitable.

Optimization Strategy:
There are several ways to speed up the computation and reduce memory usage. Here's one strategy:

1. In the modified code, using `numpy.argwhere(c_prime != 0)` is a waste of computation. It is used to check if the array c_prime is not an array of zeros. Since c_prime is always a matrix which equals 0 if it is not provided, we can just skip the computation.

2. The operation `assert_true((alpha, beta) == (1, 1))` is also redundant. `alpha` and `beta` are always set to 1. We can safely remove these lines as they are not contributing to the computational overhead.

3. In the `alpha * numpy.matmul(a_prime, b_prime)` line, the `alpha` scalar multiplication is unnecessary if it's 1. However, it is added in the original code without further analysis. This means the multiplication could be a performance bottleneck if it had to compute a large matrix.

4. `beta * c_prime` is unnecessary unless `c_prime` is not all zeros. We've already removed the unnecessary line with the `assert_true` command.

After these modifications, the code will be more efficient and will not waste time and resources on unnecessary operations, such as transposition and unnecessary scalar multiplications. It will also be compatible with further changes in the code without needing to adjust the `alpha` and `beta` parameters. 

Related Notes: 
These changes aim to optimize the code by making use of numpy's optimized BLAS (Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms) routines and improving the structure of the code to make it easier to maintain and understand. It's important to remember that optimizations should be used judiciously because they can make the code harder to understand for those who are not familiar with the specific optimization techniques.

## NL to PL Results( Execution Experiment): 

### LLM Performance Improvement

| LLMs            | Performance Improvement (%) |
|-----------------|-----------------------------|
| CodeGwen        | 31.77%                      |
| Artigenz Coder  | -6.29%                      |
| NXCode          | 67.56%                      |

The overall improvement of the code after execution, compared to the code before execution, is 45%. This means the execution time was reduced from 9.317 seconds to approximately 5.12 seconds.

Comparing this general improvement with the individual LLM improvements:

CodeGwen achieved a 31.77% improvement, which is lower than the general 45% improvement. This suggests that while CodeGwen does enhance performance, it does not reach the same level of optimization as the general improvement.

Artigenz Coder showed a -6.29% performance change, indicating that it actually degraded the performance rather than improving it. This is significantly worse compared to the 45% general improvement.

NXCode exhibited a 67.56% improvement, surpassing the general 45% improvement. This indicates that NXCode is exceptionally effective in optimizing the execution time, performing better than the average improvement achieved.

In summary, while the general code improvement is 45%, NXCode outperforms this benchmark with a higher improvement rate, CodeGwen falls short of it, and Artigenz Coder underperforms by worsening the execution time.
